Instructions:
Summarize the text

Text:
In accordance with the provisions of articles 17.3.b) and 20.8.a) of Law 38/2003, of November 17, General Subsidies, the extract of the call is published, the full text of which can be consulted in the Database National Subsidies (https://www.infosubvenciones.es/bdnstrans/GE/es/convocatoria/736590).
First.- Beneficiaries.
Bachelor's and master's students from the University of La Laguna.
Second.- Object.
Readjust the credits allocated to the call for places and early processing of aid for European mobility of students corresponding to the 2024/2025 academic year, within the framework of the Erasmus+ Program, in the modality of Student Mobility for Studies (SMS) , in order to promote the international mobility of students at the University of La Laguna, within the framework of the Erasmus+ Program.
Third.- Regulatory bases.
Resolution No. 107/2023 of the Vice-Rector for Internationalization and Cooperation of the University of La Laguna, which calls for places and aid for European mobility of students corresponding to the 2024/2025 academic year within the framework of the Erasmus+ Program, in the modality of Student Mobility for Studies (SMS).
Fourth.- Number and amount of aid.
Allocate to this call credits for a global amount of one million nine hundred and fifteen thousand two hundred and twenty-three euros and sixty cents (1,915,223.60 euros) charged to budget applications no. 1804152302 423CR 48902 and no. 180516AA 421B 48902, with in order to increase the number of mobilities granted within the Erasmus+ KA131 Program for students in the Student Mobility for Studies (SMS) modality for the 2024/2025 academic year.
Fifth.- Deadline and procedure for submitting applications.
There is no new deadline for submitting applications.
San Cristóbal de La Laguna, June 12, 2024.- The Vice-Rector for Internationalization and Cooperation (p.d. Resolution of 12.5.2023; BOC no. 101, of 25.5.2023), María Inmaculada González Pérez.


Summary:
The Vice-Rector for Internationalization and Cooperation of the University of La Laguna has allocated credits to the call for places and early processing of aid for European mobility of students corresponding to the 2024/2025 academic year within the framework of the Erasmus+ Program, in the modality of Student Mobility for Studies (SMS). The amount allocated is one million nine hundred and fifteen thousand two hundred and twenty-three euros and sixty cents.