Instructions:
Summarize the text

Text:
RECOMMENDS HEREBY:
(1)
    Member States, the Council, the Commission and, where appropriate, the European External Action Service (‘EEAS’) and relevant Union bodies, offices and agencies should cooperate with each other in the framework of the EU Critical Infrastructure Blueprint contained in this Recommendation, in order to achieve the objectives set out in Section 1 of Part I of the Annex and should, taking account of the principles set out in Section 2 of Part I of the Annex, provide a coordinated response to critical infrastructure incidents with significant cross-border relevance.
(2)
    Member States, the Council, the Commission and, where appropriate, the EEAS and relevant Union bodies, offices and agencies should apply the EU Critical Infrastructure Blueprint without undue delay, whenever a critical infrastructure incident with significant cross-border relevance occurs and as long as the Member State hosting the affected critical infrastructure is in agreement. In the context of this EU Critical Infrastructure Blueprint, a critical infrastructure incident with significant cross-border relevance takes place when an incident involving critical infrastructure has one of the following effects:
    (a)
        a significant disruptive effect on the provision of essential services, as assessed by six or more affected Member States, and communicated to the Presidency of the Council and to the Commission;
    (b)
        a significant disruptive effect on the provision of essential services by a critical entity of particular European significance within the meaning of Article 17 of Directive (EU) 2022/2557 of the European Parliament and of the Council (13), as assessed by the affected Member State(s), and communicated to the Presidency of the Council and to the Commission; or
    (c)
        a significant disruptive effect on the provision of essential services to or in two or more Member States, where in agreement with the affected Member States and in consultation with the Commission, the Presidency of the Council assesses that timely coordination in the response at Union level is required, due to, for instance, the incident’s wide-ranging and significant impact of technical or political relevance.
(3)
    The relevant actors of the EU Critical Infrastructure Blueprint, identified at operational, strategic/political levels in accordance with Section 3 of Part I of the Annex, should endeavour to interact and cooperate in complementarity. They should ensure the adequate and timely exchange of relevant information, including coordination of public communication and coordination of the response set out in Part II of the Annex.
(4)
    The EU Critical Infrastructure Blueprint should be applied having regard to and in coherence with other relevant instruments, in accordance with Section 4 of Part I of the Annex. In case an incident affects both physical aspects and the cybersecurity of critical infrastructure, coordination and synergies with the provisions for coordinated management of large-scale cybersecurity incidents provided for by Directive (EU) 2022/2555 of the European Parliament and of the Council (14) should be ensured.
(5)
    Member States should ensure that they effectively respond, at national level, and in accordance with Union law, to disruptions of critical infrastructure following significant critical infrastructure incidents, whether they have significant cross-border relevance or not.
(6)
    Member States, the Council, the EEAS, the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation (‘Europol’) and other relevant Union agencies, as well as the Commission, should designate or establish a point of contact for matters relating to the EU Critical Infrastructure Blueprint. Information should be handled in accordance with established procedures and regulations, including the handling of classified information. The points of contact should support the application of the EU Critical Infrastructure Blueprint by providing necessary information and facilitate coordination measures responding to a significant critical infrastructure incident. For Member States, where possible, those points of contact should be the same as the single points of contact to be designated or established pursuant to Article 9(2) of Directive (EU) 2022/2557.
(7)
    The Member State holding the Presidency of the Council should, in agreement with the affected Member States, inform the relevant actors involved in the response to the incident, via the points of contact referred to in point 6, of the critical infrastructure incident with significant cross-border relevance and the application of the EU Critical Infrastructure Blueprint. Exchange of information regarding a critical infrastructure incident with significant cross-border relevance should be limited to that which is relevant and proportionate to the purpose of that exchange and should occur via appropriate communication channels, including, where applicable and appropriate, the Integrated Political Crisis Response (15) (‘IPCR’) platform and the ERCC.
(8)
    When necessary, transmission channels should include secured ones in order not to jeopardise national security or the security and commercial interests of critical entities. The exchange of information in accordance with the Annex should not include information the disclosure of which would be contrary to the essential interests of Member States’ national security, public security or defence or the security and commercial interests of critical entities and in accordance with Union law. In particular, sensitive information should be accessed, exchanged and handled prudently. Available accredited tools as well as adequate security measures should be used for the handling and exchanging of classified information.
(9)
    The relevant actors should practise and test the functioning of the EU Critical Infrastructure Blueprint and their coordinated response to a critical infrastructure incident with significant cross-border relevance at national, regional and Union level, for instance in the context of exercises. Such practices and tests could include private sector entities, in agreement with all parties and in particular with the concerned Member States. Any contact with critical entities should be made through the Member States concerned. An exercise at Union level incorporating physical and cyber aspects should be organised by the Commission, in close cooperation with the Member States, including through the PROCIV CER Working Party and EU-CyCLONe, the CSIRTs network and with the support of ENISA. The objectives of the exercise should be agreed with the Member States beforehand. The exercise should take place by 26 December 2026. Based on an exchange with the Member States about lessons learnt regarding that exercise, the need for further exercises and the appropriate scenarios should be considered.
(10)
    Following the application of the EU Critical Infrastructure Blueprint in respect of a critical infrastructure incident with significant cross-border relevance, the PROCIV CER Working Party should discuss the lessons learnt that may indicate gaps and areas where improvements are necessary. Other relevant Working Parties could be associated, as appropriate, to that lessons learnt process. Member States are encouraged to gather lessons learnt from all relevant actors directly involved in the response to the incident, as appropriate. Building on those discussions, the Presidency of the Council, with the support of the General Secretariat of the Council, in consultation with the Commission and with the affected Member States, should produce a report on lessons learnt. If necessary, the report should be classified at the adequate level.
Done at Luxembourg, 25 June 2024.


Summary:
The EU Critical Infrastructure Blueprint provides a framework for cooperation and coordination in the event of a critical infrastructure incident with significant cross-border relevance. Member States, the Council, the Commission, and the EEAS should cooperate with each other to achieve the objectives set out in the Blueprint. The Blueprint should be applied without undue delay when a critical infrastructure incident occurs and as long as the Member State hosting the affected critical infrastructure is in agreement. The Blueprint should be applied in coherence with other relevant instruments and in particular with the provisions for coordinated management of large-scale cybersecurity incidents. Member States should ensure that they effectively respond to disruptions of critical infrastructure following significant critical infrastructure incidents.